Hello and welcome back. In this lesson, we will use codex to add an open router free model to
OpenClaw. Sign into open router. Let's create a new key. We will call it test. I will delete
this key after shooting this video. Copy this key and save it in notepad. Go to the models page.
In the search box, type in free and it will list down all the free models you can use.
Let's scroll through and take a look. There are many good ones.
You should choose those with instruct and tool calling capabilities.
If it has vision, that would also be useful. Note that uncensored models are also available.
These models will not refuse to do something because of ethical reasons.
We will try nvidia's nemotron 3 super but you can try anything else you prefer
click on the nemotron link and copy its official name then paste it into notepad
Next we launch codex. We then tell codex we want to add a new open router model
and make it the default, but we still want to keep the other models intact.
We paste in the official name for Nemotron, and also paste in your open router API key.
We also ask it to make backup copies of the configuration files before making any changes.
Also, remember to give it full access to your PC.
And Codex goes to work. Occasionally, it will ask you to approve certain actions.
just click on yes and don't ask again for that action. I then add additional instructions asking
it to remove all old API keys for open router and update them with the one I provided. I then click
on the steer button so that it can be read by codex without interrupting what it is currently
doing. Continue to approve every action that it asks you permission for. Then I added further
instructions asking it to also update any environment variables that stores
the open router API key. Again, I click on the steer button. I will speed up the
video. After making the changes, Codex restarts the OpenClaw gateway. It then
gives a report of what it has done. Let's open Telegram. Delete the chat history
and start a new session. Open CLAW replies and I ask it what model are you
on. It replies that it is on Nemotron 3 Free. It works.
I type in further messages just to confirm and again it replies. So Codex
has successfully added a new model to Open CLAW. Let's head back to Codex and
and ask it to save this workflow to memory so that in future when we ask it to add another
model it will remember how to.
It successfully saved it to memory and then informs us.
I ask it where did it save to and it tells me the file names and the path to those files
as well.
Let's go back to the free models list.
You could try all these free models and see which ones you like.
And the good news is that you don't have to pay anything for them.
You could ask Codex to set up fallbacks in case one model is rate limited, it can automatically
fall back into other backup models.
And Codex can easily set it up for you.
Just copy the official model names you want to use as fallbacks and give them to Codex
to wire things up.
So you can see how much easier life can be if you ask Codex to fix things for you instead
of manually editing configuration files.
Apart from Codex, you can also use Claude code if you have a subscription with Claude.
Just a basic Claude Pro plan subscription gives you access to Claude code.
It can also do everything that OpenAI Codex can do.
These two are among the best AI models for agentic workflows.
Both of them can fix any open-claw problems.
Now, if open-claw does not work, or if you have any issues at all, just ask Codex or
Claude Code to troubleshoot and fix them for you.
For the Claude Code setup, download the Claude Desktop app and then on the top left, select
Code, then give it full access to your machine.
It works just like Codex.
Let us now take a snapshot of our virtual machine.
First, we shut down our Windows 11 virtual machine.
Click on the take icon and give a name for this snapshot.
I will call it Nemotron. Note that you can also delete older snapshots
in order to free up disk storage space. For example, I will delete my oldest
snapshot. Note that you don't have to choose the
oldest snapshot. You may choose any snapshot to
delete. The Virtual Box Manager will then merge the existing snapshots seamlessly.
That's all for this video. Thanks for watching.